When we talk about python, we mean two
separate things that are closely related: Python language and
particular implementation. Python as a language is just a specification
that defines a set of rules and grammar for writing
python code. A python implementation is basically
a program that understands those rules and can execute
python code. Earlier in the course we downloaded Python from Python.org
This is the default implementation of Python called CPython.
It's a program written in C, that's why it's called CPython.
So here in terminal, when we run python
we get this CPython, this is the default implementation of Python.
There are a few other implementations out there such as
Jython written in Java, IronPython written in C#,
and PyPy written in a subset of Python itself.
As new features are added to the Python language, they are first supported
by CPython because that's the default implementation, and then they
will gradually come to the other implementations. In theory
if we give some python code to any of these implementations we should get
the same result, but in practice that's not always the case.
Certain features may be available in one implementation but not another,
or they just behave a little bit differently in a particular
implementation. Now you might ask, what is the point of this?
Why do we have several implementations of Python? Wouldn't CPythonn
be enough? Well, it's for the same reason we have multiple operating
systems, Or multiple operating systems, or multiple browsers, or multiple programming languages.
After all these years, programmers haven't agreed on a single
programming language, and that's the same story with Python implementation.
However, there is one technical reason
behind these implementations that you should be aware of. Since Jython
is implemented in Java, it allows you to reuse
some existing Java code in a Python program. So if you're a Java
developer and you want to import some Java code into a Python program,
you should use Jython instead of Cpython.
Similarly IronPython is written in C#, so if you're a C# developer,
and want to bring some C# code into a Python program, you will
have to use IronPython. Next we will look at how exactly
CPython executes Python Code.